Editorial review: Wasm SIMD Load instructions (#43460)
mdn/content: files/en-us/webassembly/reference/simd/load/index.md

---
title: WebAssembly SIMD load instructions
slug: WebAssembly/Reference/SIMD/load
page-type: landing-page
sidebar: webassemblysidebar
---

WebAssembly SIMD load instructions.

## Load and load lane

- [`load`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/SIMD/load/load)

>   - : Loads a [`v128`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Types/v128) value interpretation from a given memory address.

Reviewer: What's a value interpretation? 

I suspect this means "Load all lanes of a v128 from a memory address", and that is probably clearer.

>   - : Loads all lanes of a [`v128`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Types/v128) value interpretation from a given memory address.

Reviewer: Could this be misinterpreted as reading the memory and populating all the lanes from sequential memory rather than one value at the address used in all langes.

```suggestion
  - : Loads all lanes of a [`v128`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/Types/v128) value interpretation with the value at a given memory address.
```

- [`load8_lane`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/SIMD/load/load8_lane)

>   - : Loads a single value from a given memory address into the specified lane of a `v128` `i8x16` value interpretation.

Reviewer: For all these I don't understand what value interpretation. means, but I otherwise cool.

- [`load16_lane`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/SIMD/load/load16_lane)
  - : Loads a single value from a given memory address into the specified lane of a `v128` `i16x8` value interpretation.
- [`load32_lane`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/SIMD/load/load32_lane)
  - : Loads a single value from a given memory address into the specified lane of a `v128` `i32x4` value interpretation.
- [`load64_lane`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/SIMD/load/load64_lane)
  - : Loads a single value from a given memory address into the specified lane of a `v128` `i64x2` value interpretation.

## Load and extend

- [`load8x8_s`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/SIMD/load/load8x8_s)

>   - : Loads eight 8-bit integers from a given memory address and sign extends each one to a 16-bit lane, outputting a `v128` `i16x8` value interpretation.

Reviewer: What does sign-extend mean? It isn't guessable.

> - [`load8x8_u`](/en-US/docs/WebAssembly/Reference/SIMD/load/load8x8_u)

Reviewer: What does zero-extend mean - I assumed zero extend means "zero fill the extra bytes in the new lanes"?
